Alright so in this video we are going to
look at displaying an image from the
database. So last time we spoke,
we put the image there and now we're
going to do the exact opposite and get
the image back out of the database. And
we do have to do a couple things here. We
get a little more cozy with the response
object in this case and up on the screen
right now, I have the unit test that I
wrote for this change to our little
project here. And you can see on line 76,
I create the RecipeCommand and then
82-87 I created just a small Byte
array on that and I do have to do the
conversion from primitive to the boxed
byte for the command object. And so I'm
just using text there and it just needs
to be a Byte array. We're going to
compare the length at the end there so I
could have slipped in an image file for
this but that's just a little bit easier
for our testing purposes. And we can see
on line 91, I am using a Mockito mock
there to mimic the service activity and
I'm not even bothering to make sure that
runs. I'm more interested in the actual
response and I will get that down on
the bottom. Now in this case it's the
first time that we're seeing this. We've
done the expect. I'm expecting a status
of okay but this time we want to look at
the servlet response itself. And you can
see on line 94 I'm showing you
how to use a return and there's a couple
options for return but I'm going to get
the actual response object and just to
reiterate the mockMvc stuff we will use a
mock servlet response. So that's
what we're emulating there on that line.
And now we're on line 98, we are going to get
the response content as a Byte array and
then finally on line 100, we verify that. So let's go ahead and run this guy and
we'll see it run under
in IntelliJ here and that this
tells us that we went into the
controller to that URL and got back the
expected response. So we provided it Byte
array and we got a Byte array back out.
So let's go ahead and take a look at the
implementation of the controller now. So
on line 50, this is the method that I
added and we are going to map it out to
recipeId and recipe image. I could call
it something like JPEG or something like
that but this is fine for our purposes
and you can see what's unique about this
is now we are asking Spring MVC to give
us the HttpServletResponse. And that's
important because we want to get a hold
of that. We're just going to be returning
back a raw image. And then line 51 we go
out to the repository get our
service and get the RecipeCommand which
will have the byte array on it. And it
did have to add the Byte array to the
RecipeCommand. It can change one
converter to add that. We didn't have
that before on the command object. So
that is there now and line 53 to 59 is
where I'm doing from the byteArray
boxed type to the primitive which is
what we need to be work there. And you can
see they're in line 58 I put in a little
auto unboxing. So then finally on line
61 we set the content type to be an
image JPEG. We create an InputStream and
then the IOUtils is going to copy from
the byte array input stream to the
response output stream. So that's a
little utility. I believe that's from Tomcat.
Yeah, so that's from the Apache
Tomcat. That's a little utility class that it
provides for us to convert the InputStream to an OutputStream. So it's a
little bit tricky, we're kind of getting
cozy with streams there but this is how
you get a hold of the response and
provide it the bytes of an image. So
we're doing pretty low-level stuff here
as far as working with the images. Let's
take a look at the RecipeCommand. I did
have to add in line 46 there
our converter to convert over. I'm not
doing a two-way so I'm only going from
the Recipe object to RecipeCommand. So
right now we don't have a use case to
support a command object having a byte
array on it already. So I'm not bothering
to add that. Just a recap here I
did add in that Byte array property for
the image to the RecipeCommand object. Let's go ahead and now run this. I
have it running, double check.
I'm sorry I actually do have it running.
So they're going to restart this. Okay we
are up and running. Let's go ahead and
take a look at that inside the browser.
I'm going to refresh this and when I
come in and view, you can see that the image is
broken. This is an app that we're going to
be developing. I'd say we'll probably do
some type of default there so I don't
get this broken image. Now we can come in
and do a change and choose a file,
navigate over to the images of the
static resources there. So let's go ahead.
Which one were we on. I actually forget
which one we're on. We are on the
spicy grilled chicken tacos. So we want
to do the taco image. There's our tacos.
You can submit that and you can see that
now we're getting the image displayed
from from the database. And actually we've got
a stack trace there and we've got a
null pointer exception. Okay so that's not what we want for the
image. So that's a hidden error so we
need to double check that because we got
the image was not found. There's nothing
there and now we're getting an NPE. So I
will fix that in the code before
checking that in. I don't think I need
to show you guys how to check that. So
this guy right here, we got the NPE
on. So we now got the image which is
a byte array and we called length on
that byte array and that's what caused the NPE. So before I check this in, I'll
add in a check to make sure that it was
not the
case. Let's take a quick look at this. So
back up, and let's also update the
perfect guacamole. Put that in the view
screen, change image, choose file. Now
we can do the guacamole, upload that,
submit it. And now we can see that we
have the two different images for both our
recipes. So if I can go to this, change
them to two. You see that the image changes. Let's
refresh this database console and take a
quick look at that and look at recipe
and now we can see that we have bytes
and both images. So exactly what we want
there. Much smaller than what I was
uploading before but that's the byte
array for for the images stored in the
database.